[DOCS] Add documentation for ValidationDefinition.get_unexpected_rows() (#11712)
great-expectations/great_expectations: docs/docusaurus/docs/core/run_validations/retrieve_all_unexpected_rows.md

## Prerequisites

- <PrereqPythonInstalled/>.
- <PrereqGxInstalled/>.
- <PrereqPreconfiguredDataContext/>. In this guide the variable `context` is assumed to contain your Data Context.
- <PrereqValidationDefinition/> that includes an `UnexpectedRowsExpectation`.

## Procedure

<Tabs
   queryString="procedure"
   defaultValue="instructions"
   values={[
      {value: 'instructions', label: 'Instructions'},
      {value: 'sample_code', label: 'Sample code'}
   ]}
>

<TabItem value="instructions" label="Instructions">

> 1. Retrieve your Validation Definition:

Reviewer: suggestion regarding https://github.com/great-expectations/great_expectations/pull/11712#discussion_r2962739474

```suggestion
1. Retrieve your Validation Definition:

   :::tip You can use a Checkpoint instead.
   While this example shows how to retrieve all unexpected rows after running a Validation Definition, you can use the `ValidationDefinition.get_unexpected_rows()` method after running a [Checkpoint](/docs/core/trigger_actions_based_on_results/run_a_checkpoint.md). 
   :::

```

   ```python title="Python" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/core/run_validations/_examples/retrieve_all_unexpected_rows.py - retrieve Validation Definition"
   ```

2. Run the Validation Definition to get a result.

   If your [Batch Definition is partitioned](/core/connect_to_data/sql_data.md/?batch_definition=partitioned#create-a-batch-definition), pass the appropriate `batch_parameters`:

   ```python title="Python" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/core/run_validations/_examples/retrieve_all_unexpected_rows.py - run validation"
   ```

3. Iterate over the results and call `get_unexpected_rows()` for each failing custom SQL Expectation.

>    The `get_unexpected_rows()` method only supports `UnexpectedRowsExpectation`.  If your Expectation Suite contains other Expectation types, check `isinstance(evr.expectation, UnexpectedRowsExpectation)` before calling the method.  Pass `result.batch_parameters` to ensure the same batch is queried:

Author: ```suggestion
   The `get_unexpected_rows()` method only supports `UnexpectedRowsExpectation`.  If your Expectation Suite contains other Expectation types, check `isinstance(evr.expectation, UnexpectedRowsExpectation)` before calling the method.  If your Batch Definition uses partitioning, pass `result.batch_parameters`:
```

---

> title: Retrieve all unexpected rows

Reviewer: This new page should have a description for SEO

```suggestion
title: Retrieve all unexpected rows
description: Retrieve all failing rows from a custom SQL Expectation so you can quarantine them or process them however you need.
```

---
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';

import PrereqPythonInstalled from '../_core_components/prerequisites/_python_installation.md';
import PrereqGxInstalled from '../_core_components/prerequisites/_gx_installation.md';
import PrereqPreconfiguredDataContext from '../_core_components/prerequisites/_preconfigured_data_context.md';
import PrereqValidationDefinition from '../_core_components/prerequisites/_validation_definition.md';

By default, Validation Results include up to 200 unexpected rows in the `unexpected_rows` field. If your data contains more than 200 failing rows, use `ValidationDefinition.get_unexpected_rows()` to retrieve **all** of them. This method runs the Expectation's query against the same batch and respects any partitioning filters, but removes the 200-row cap.

> This method currently supports `UnexpectedRowsExpectation` on SQL and Spark Data Sources.

Reviewer: Suggestion below aims to address a few things:

1. This intro is very technology-forward. While this does match the style of many other page intros, I've been trying to move towards page intros leading with business value instead to help readers more quickly assess whether the page will aid them in their goals

2. I think the fact that this method only works for one Expectation should be mentioned sooner to help readers gauge whether the page is relevant to their needs more quickly

3. Re: "By default, Validation Results include up to 200 unexpected rows in the `unexpected_rows` field." this is a bit pedantic but I don't think this statement is strictly true. The [result format docs](https://docs.greatexpectations.io/docs/core/trigger_actions_based_on_results/choose_a_result_format/) say

   > "The default for Validation Results generated by Expectations is `"SUMMARY"`."

   and under "Reference the table below for valid keys and how they influence the generated Validation Results:" the SUMMARY table says 

   > "include_unexpected_rows"
   > When True, this returns up to 200 entire rows that violate the Expectation (default is False).

   The 200 row limit isn't default behavior for Validation Results as much as it is default behavior for the `unexpected_rows` field

4. The mention of "same batch" is confusing because it's the first time the concept of batches is mentioned on the page. 

5. per the [style guide](https://greatexpectations.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DVRL/pages/657915907/Great+Expectations+style+guide), bold is reserved for references to UI elements and should not be used for emphasis

```suggestion
By default, Validation Results summarize why Expectations failed or succeeded. The default verbosity is designed for exploratory work. If you need more details, you can [increase the verbosity](/core/trigger_actions_based_on_results/choose_a_result_format.md) to return up to 200 failing rows for certain types of Expectations. While this is sufficient for many troubleshooting workflows, there may be times when you want to retrieve all the failing rows with no limit. For example, if you want to quarantine bad records, you'll need all the failing rows.  To support these use cases, GX Core provides the `ValidationDefinition.get_unexpected_rows()` method for use with the `UnexpectedRowsExpectation` class. You can use this method to return all rows that failed your custom SQL Expectations in the batch of data you validated.
```

## Prerequisites

- <PrereqPythonInstalled/>.
- <PrereqGxInstalled/>.
- <PrereqPreconfiguredDataContext/>. In this guide the variable `context` is assumed to contain your Data Context.

> - <PrereqValidationDefinition/> that includes an `UnexpectedRowsExpectation` and is backed by a SQL or Spark Data Source.

Reviewer: Is it necessary to include "and is backed by a SQL or Spark Data Source" here? The [gallery](https://greatexpectations.io/expectations/unexpected_rows_expectation/) indicates that `UnexpectedRowsExpectation` is available for only SQL and Spark Data Sources in the first place. Is there a realistic scenario where a user would have an UnexpectedRowsExpectation associated with a filesystem or pandas Data Source?

Author: It is not, I will remove this

> ### Procedure

Reviewer: This was likely copied from another page that has the same issue, but in terms of information  hierarchy it doesn't make sense for "Procedure" to be an h3 child of the "Prerequisites" h2

<img width="798" height="272" alt="Screenshot 2026-03-13 at 2 44 05 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1f3e2d2f-5ab1-4954-8907-343978570548" />

```suggestion
## Procedure
```

<Tabs
   queryString="procedure"
   defaultValue="instructions"
   values={[
      {value: 'instructions', label: 'Instructions'},
      {value: 'sample_code', label: 'Sample code'}
   ]}
>

<TabItem value="instructions" label="Instructions">

> 1. Retrieve your Validation Definition.

Reviewer: The other sentences that directly precede a code block end in a colon. I think this one should too for consistency.

```suggestion
1. Retrieve your Validation Definition:
```

   ```python title="Python" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/core/run_validations/_examples/retrieve_all_unexpected_rows.py - retrieve Validation Definition"
   ```

> 2. Run the Validation Definition to get a result.

Reviewer: Does the new method only work with Validation Results produced from a Validation Definition? Or, can the new method be used after running `checkpoint.run` or `batch.validate` ?

If the new method can be used after running a checkpoint or validating a batch, is there any reason to recommend using it after running a Validation Definition specifically?

Author: It can be used after running a checkpoint.

I'm suggesting using a Validation Definition here because the existing documentation focuses on how to "run a validation," while the sibling documents describe how to create and run a Validation Definition.

Should I update this to checkpiont?

Reviewer: Thanks! I think you should leave the happy path as is here using the Validation Definition for the reason you state. But, I think it would be helpful to acknowledge that you can use the new method after running a checkpoint in case folks want to append existing workflows that use checkpoints. 

I will add a new suggestion for this

>    If your Batch Definition uses partitioning, pass the appropriate `batch_parameters`:

Reviewer: I think it would be helpful to include a link for context about what it means for a Batch Definition to use partitioning in case the user isn't sure how their batch definition is configured

```suggestion
   If your [Batch Definition is partitioned](/core/connect_to_data/sql_data.md/?batch_definition=partitioned#create-a-batch-definition), pass the appropriate `batch_parameters`:
```

   ```python title="Python" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/core/run_validations/_examples/retrieve_all_unexpected_rows.py - run validation"
   ```

> 3. Iterate over the results and call `get_unexpected_rows()` for each failing Expectation.

Reviewer: "each failing Expectation" implies ALL Expectations. For clarity, I think this should specify the supported Expectation type

```suggestion
3. Iterate over the results and call `get_unexpected_rows()` for each failing custom SQL Expectation.
```

>    `get_unexpected_rows()` only supports `UnexpectedRowsExpectation`.  If your Expectation Suite contains other expectation types, check `isinstance(evr.expectation, UnexpectedRowsExpectation)` before calling the method.  Pass `result.batch_parameters` to ensure the same batch is queried:

Reviewer: capitalization

- we style Expectation as a proper noun
- I think it looks funny to start a paragraph with lowercase inline code

```suggestion
   The `get_unexpected_rows()` method only supports `UnexpectedRowsExpectation`.  If your Expectation Suite contains other Expectation types, check `isinstance(evr.expectation, UnexpectedRowsExpectation)` before calling the method.  Pass `result.batch_parameters` to ensure the same batch is queried:
```

>    `get_unexpected_rows()` only supports `UnexpectedRowsExpectation`.  If your Expectation Suite contains other expectation types, check `isinstance(evr.expectation, UnexpectedRowsExpectation)` before calling the method.  Pass `result.batch_parameters` to ensure the same batch is queried:

Reviewer: Is passing `result.batch_parameters` always required even if the user if validating a whole Data Asset?

Or is this only required if the user completed the optional part of step 2 that says 
> If your Batch Definition uses partitioning, pass the appropriate `batch_parameters`:
?

Author: I'll update to add the conditional

   ```python title="Python" name="docs/docusaurus/docs/core/run_validations/_examples/retrieve_all_unexpected_rows.py - retrieve unexpected rows"
   ```

>    `get_unexpected_rows()` returns a `list[dict]` with one dictionary per failing row. You can convert this to a DataFrame, write it to a quarantine table, or process it however you need.

Reviewer: Is this information about the format being a `list[dict]` true regardless of the Data Source? I ask because the [result format docs](https://deploy-preview-11712.docs.greatexpectations.io/docs/core/trigger_actions_based_on_results/choose_a_result_format/) say 

> `unexpected_rows`
>  The format depends on the Data Source. For example, a SQL Data Source will return a list of dictionaries while a Spark Data Source will return a DataFrame.

and I wonder if the new method has similar Data-Source-specific nuance

Author: It should always be a list

>    `get_unexpected_rows()` returns a `list[dict]` with one dictionary per failing row. You can convert this to a DataFrame, write it to a quarantine table, or process it however you need.

Reviewer: similar to another note - I think it looks funny for a paragraph to start with lowercase inline code

```suggestion
   The `get_unexpected_rows()` method returns a `list[dict]` with one dictionary per failing row. You can convert this to a DataFrame, write it to a quarantine table, or process it however you need.
```

   :::note Suite parameter queries

   If your Expectation uses a suite parameter reference (`$PARAMETER` syntax) for `unexpected_rows_query`, pass the `expectation_parameters` argument with the resolved parameter values. Without it, `get_unexpected_rows()` raises a `ValueError`.

>    :::

Reviewer: I'm concerned about the use of the term "suite parameters" here. The only other place in the docs we use this phrase is [configure project stores](https://docs.greatexpectations.io/docs/core/configure_project_settings/configure_metadata_stores/) and we don't explain what it means there - we just say a store exists for them

> These Stores are the Expectations Store, Validation Definitions Store, Checkpoint Store, Validation Results Store, and the Suite Parameter Store. 

I think we should use the phrase "runtime parameters" instead since that's the language that https://docs.greatexpectations.io/docs/core/define_expectations/create_an_expectation/?expectation_parameters=runtime#procedure-create-expectation uses in the instructions for creating $PARAMETER syntax

And I think it would be helpful to include a link for context

```suggestion
   :::note Runtime parameters

   If your Expectation uses the `$PARAMETER` syntax for [runtime parameters](/core/define_expectations/create_an_expectation.md?expectation_parameters=runtime),  pass your dictionary of parameter values with the `expectation_parameters` argument. Otherwise, you will get a `ValueError`.

   :::
```

It could also be helpful to include a code sample in this note, but I'm not sure if notes play nice with nested code samples. Github suggestions don't play nice with nested code fences, so here's an example of what I mean

:::note Runtime parameters

If your Expectation uses the `$PARAMETER` syntax for [runtime parameters](/core/define_expectations/create_an_expectation.md?expectation_parameters=runtime),  pass your dictionary of parameter values with the`expectation_parameters` argument. Otherwise, you will get a `ValueError`.

```Python
expectation_parameters = {
    "query":  "SELECT * FROM {batch} WHERE column="value"",
    "description":   "Example of using runtime parameters"
}

validation_definition.get_unexpected_rows(
            evr.expectation,
            batch_parameters=result.batch_parameters,
            expectation_parameters=expectation_parameters
        )
```

:::

---
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';

import PrereqPythonInstalled from '../_core_components/prerequisites/_python_installation.md';
import PrereqGxInstalled from '../_core_components/prerequisites/_gx_installation.md';
import PrereqPreconfiguredDataContext from '../_core_components/prerequisites/_preconfigured_data_context.md';
import PrereqValidationDefinition from '../_core_components/prerequisites/_validation_definition.md';

By default, Validation Results include up to 200 unexpected rows in the `unexpected_rows` field. If your data contains more than 200 failing rows, use `ValidationDefinition.get_unexpected_rows()` to retrieve **all** of them. This method runs the Expectation's query against the same batch and respects any partitioning filters, but removes the 200-row cap.

This method currently supports `UnexpectedRowsExpectation` on SQL and Spark Data Sources.

## Prerequisites

- <PrereqPythonInstalled/>.
- <PrereqGxInstalled/>.
- <PrereqPreconfiguredDataContext/>. In this guide the variable `context` is assumed to contain your Data Context.

> - <PrereqValidationDefinition/> that includes an `UnexpectedRowsExpectation` and is backed by a SQL or Spark Data Source.

Author: ```suggestion
- <PrereqValidationDefinition/> that includes an `UnexpectedRowsExpectation`.
```
